# Attacking

If there are no unclaimed planets avaialable, or if exploration cost to much for you,you can take planets from other players by buildng a fleet and attacking the planet you'd like to take.  In order to win the planet, you must win the final phase (ground fight). An attack is divided into three phases. In the first phase, attacking bombers attempt to destroy the existing lasers on the planet. Each bomber has a 10% chance to destroy a laser. If there are lasers that are not destroyed by attacking bombers, they will first shoot down attacking transports and then attacking bombers. Each laser will destroy 10 units. 

In the second phase, attacking and defending fighters combat each other. The maximum amount of attacking or defending fighters that can be destroyed is 30%. If the numbers on each side are equal, losses will be about 5% on each side. If there are plenty of defending fighters left after combat, then they have the chance to shoot down attacking transports. Up to 100% of transports can be destroyed by defending fighters.

The third and final phase is the ground fight. Any remaining transports will land and deploy attacking ground units. Droids are better at attacking than soldiers and soldiers are better at defending than droids. After ground units are destroyed, the empire with more ground units remaining will win the battle. If the attacker is successful, they will take control of the planet. If the defender has a networth of 70% or more of the attacker, the buildings on the planet will remain intact for the attacker. If the networth ratio is 35%-70%, the buildings will all be destroyed in the transfer of control. If the networth ratio is under 35%, the attacker will not take control of the planet. The planet will become uninhabited and and exploration ship will need to be sent to take control of the planet.