# Player Roles

Due to race bonuses lying in different areas of expertise, players in a family will divide themselves into different roles to cover all of the family's needs as efficiently as possible. The three main roles that the vast majority of players in a galaxy will fall into are bankers, resourcers, and attackers. 

Bankers focus on making gold and nothing else. They provide all the income for the entire family, which they send in aid shipments to non-banker players. The two ways to do this are by building cash factories or by building living quarters to increase population. Each style has benefits and drawbacks. Banking with cash factories is generally seen as less complex, although it still provides freedom in plenty of options, such as the ratios of cash factories, tax offices, and research centers, to optimize income. Banking with living quarters (pop banking) allows for a much larger attainable income, but takes a long time to achieve. It will make your networth very high, making you a prime target for attacks by other families. It also relies heavily on resourcers in your family to send enough food to feed you burgeoning population. 

Resourcers in a family generally play as a race with access to high research bonuses and high attacking bonuses and/or many spells and covert operations. They will not be the main attacker of the family but are usually fully capable of making successful attacks. These players will prioritize building mining facilities, hydroponic farms, occult centers, and refinement stations in order to produce large amounts of iron, food, octarine, and endurium, respectively. Working to get a high research bonus in the resource category is what gives resourcers an advantage to produce more than other players in the family. 

Attackers (otherwise known as hardcore or hc attackers) will keep their networth as low as possible while maintaining a fleet large enough to fulfill the offensive needs of the family. Many times these players will only build research centers and lasers as buildings in their empire. This is a necessity since the games uses morale to limit how often players are allowed to engage attacks. This is largely based on individual networth so attackers want their networth to be low enough so they can have more morale. Attackers will often go long periods of time without building anything when their family is at peace, but they carry the full responsibility of the family when war breaks out. 