## Roles

Imperial Conflict is a team based game that requires each player to perform a specific role in order to obtain victory. Here is a listing of the primary roles

### The Banker

The banker’s role in Imperial Conflict is to provide the family with the necessary income in order to go to war with an enemy family. Bankers are generally used in tandem with an attacker in the family or part of a team of bankers to work as a family unit. There are 2 types of bankers. The first type is the Cash Factory based banker. This banker uses a strategy that consists of a combination of Cash Factories and Tax Offices in order to generate income. The other type is a population based banker. This banker utilizes Living Quarters in conjunction with Tax Offices. The population based banker makes a significant amount more gc than a Cash Factory banker. The drawback, however, is that the player’s income is generated by the total amount of population throughout the player’s empire. Since population grows at a slow rate, it can take a while for a pop banker to reach their maximum income. A pop banker is also highly dependent on food and can lose a lot of their income if they don’t have any on hand. Pop banking also requires a lot more care in terms of building the right infrastructure on time. Cash factory banking isn’t as complicated, but a cash factory banker will never produce anywhere near the income that a pop banker will. Usually the families that win the game have several pop bankers on board.

### The Attacker

The attacker’s role is to act as the family’s work horse. His job is to secure the family’s defenses, capture and gain planets for the family’s Bankers and Resourcers, and lastly, to capture enemy systems and along with his fellow attackers, get into position for war. There are 2 different attacker types most generally used. The first is the role of the “main attacker”. He is normally the most active attacker in terms of logging in and monitoring the map. He is the first priority when it comes to receiving aid for fleet and is trusted to be most effective in capturing planets for the family in order to win. During war time situations, this attacker is usually the one to build the most fighter fleet and takes out the other family’s main attacker.

The second role is the “support attacker”. As the name states, this attacker’s job is to assist the main attacker in clearing threats and defending the family’s core defense. He kills the enemy family’s medium-small sized attackers and maintains a lower fleet size than the main attacker in order to prevent anyone from sneaking into unwanted territory. During wartime situations, his job is to build heavy ground units and to use them to kill enemy bankers and their smaller attackers.

### The Resourcer

The resourcer's role is to provide supporting operations, spells, attacks and to produce the necessary resources for the bankers to construct buildings and the attackers's fleet. Each unit of infrastructure or fleet is built with GC (provided by the bankers) and the following resources: Endurium, Iron, Food and Octarine. Most families prefer to have 2-3 resourcers, depending on family size and activity, in order to effectively enhance their economy. Each resourcer tends to have a main and sub area of focus in terms of production. For example, one resourcer main build 60% iron and 40% endurium. Another might have 60% food and 60% octarine. How a family handles their economy is determined on their needs. If a family has one or more pop bankers, they will require heavy amounts of food income and a resourcer will have to make that their top priority. If they don't have any pop bankers, but active attackers and a team of cash factory bankers, they will require heavy amounts of iron. The #1 resource in Imperial Conflict is iron. Without iron, attackers have 0 ability to build any fleet. So having a good resourcer is vital to winning the game.

The other purpose of a resourcer is to assist the attackers with supporting attacks and ops. An attacker may have fleets en route to enemy systems and will need other threats removed in the meantime. This is the job of the resourcer, to clear these threats before they become an invasion. They must also provide intelligence and defense for the family by using wizards and agents in order to gain information on enemy fleet sizes, income production, allies and more. They may also need to destroy the enemy's fleet and income using these ops when war is declared.

## Strategies

What is written above is only a simplified walkthrough for a first time player. Once you have mastered the basics, you should try out different strategies on how to play. There are some general strategies that have evolved over the years. Here are a few:

## See Also
